README.md, before:

![CI @ ubuntu-latest](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/workflows/CI%20@%20ubuntu-latest/badge.svg)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/kodefoxx/kf.essentials.cleanarchitecture)

# Essentials for Clean Architecture
`Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture` are helper classes, structures and extension methods used to form a base for pragmatic, clean architecture minded design.
> You can [download/get it on NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/)

The classes/tools available are:
- [Domain modelling](#domainmodelling)
  - [`Entity<TId>`](#entityoftid)
  - [`ValueObject`](#valueobject)
- [Commands and Queries](#commandsandqueries)
  - [Queries](#queries)
  - [Commands](#commands)

## Dependencies
- [language-ext](https://github.com/louthy/language-ext)
- [MediatR](https://github.com/jbogard/MediatR)
- [KF.Essentials](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials)

## <a name="domainmodelling" /> Domain modelling
We draw a lot from the original _Domain Driven Design_ guidelines here, and implement it in a pragmatic way. If you do not agree with this setup, there is flexibility to alter it when implementing, or else, simply ignore it.
Do feel free to post an issue if something might be broken. 

If you want some reading on what an entity and a value object represents, please read this blgpost [Entity vs Value Object: the ultimate list of differences](https://enterprisecraftsmanship.com/posts/entity-vs-value-object-the-ultimate-list-of-differences/).

### <a name="entityoftid" /> Entity<TId> 
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/Entity.cs))</small>
Abstract generic class giving you the benefit of not writing boilerplate for an entity base class. `TId` stands for the type of the id you use in your domain model. It is recommended when started your own project not just to implement directly from `Entity<TId>`, but to create your own implementation based on it. E.g.:
```
    public abstract class DomainEntity : Entity<long>
    {
        protected DomainEntity(long id) 
            : base(id)
        { }
    }

    public sealed class Person : DomainEntity
    {
        // rest of the implementation here...
    }
```

Furthermore if you use a non-native type for your id, please consider overriding the [`CompareId` method](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/Entity.cs#L53) as this is implemented in the [`Equals` method](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Entity.cs#L46). Overriding it means you can apply specific logic for your id type, or apply other domain specific logic determining the equality between two id's.
```
    public abstract class DomainEntity : Entity<long>
    {
        protected DomainEntity(long id) 
            : base(id)
        { }

        protected override bool CompareId(long a, long b)
        {
            // implement your custom compare logic between a and b  
	}
    }    
```

Last of all, I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

### <a name="valueobject" /> ValueObject 
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/ValueObject.cs))</small>
Abstract class that provides you the benefit of not writing boilerplate for a valueobject base class.
When inheriting from in you will need to override the [property `EquatableValues`](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/ValueObject.cs#L35), this is an `IEnumerable<object>` that represents all properties, fields in the object that need to be taken into account when being compared, it essentially defines how `Equals` and `HashCode` are calculated and thus defines the _"identity"_ of the object. Here's an example implementation.
```
    public sealed class Name : ValueObject
    {
        // rest of the implementation here...

        public string First { get; }
        public string Last { get; }        

        protected override IEnumerable<object> EquatableValues
            => new[] { First, Last };
    }
```

Last of all, I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

## <a name="commandsandqueries" /> Commands and Queries

### <a name="queries" /> Queries
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Cqs/Queries/))</small>
Set of interfaces and classes to provide an easy way to define a _(reusable) query_ that can be handled by a queryhandler. I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

For optimal use make sure to register your `IQueryHandler<TQuery, TQueryResult>` with a DI container, either manually or by using an assembly scanner like [Scrutor](https://github.com/khellang/Scrutor), if done so you could then register all `IQueryHandler<,>` types like so to the `IServiceCollection`:
```
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        // other services...
        
        services.Scan(scan =>
            scan           
                .FromAssembliesOf(typeof(SomeTypeWhereYourQueryHandlersAreLocated))
                .AddClasses(classes => classes.AssignableTo(typeof(IQueryHandler<,>)))
                    .AsImplementedInterfaces()
                    .WithScopedLifetime()
            );
    }
```

### <a name="commands" /> Commands
/// todo

Commit message:

Added ICommand, ICommand<TResult>, ICommandHandlerHandler<TCommand>, ICommandHandler<TCommans, TCommandResult> and CommandHandler abstract class for both interfaces. Added tests to showcase the usage. Also integrated MediatR for the IRequest behavior, so one can build on it for pipeline support.

README.md, after:

![CI @ ubuntu-latest](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/workflows/CI%20@%20ubuntu-latest/badge.svg)
![GitHub top language](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/kodefoxx/kf.essentials.cleanarchitecture)

# Essentials for Clean Architecture
`Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture` are helper classes, structures and extension methods used to form a base for pragmatic, clean architecture minded design.
> You can [download/get it on NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/)

The classes/tools available are:
- [Domain modelling](#domainmodelling)
  - [`Entity<TId>`](#entityoftid)
  - [`ValueObject`](#valueobject)
- [Commands and Queries](#commandsandqueries)
  - [Queries](#queries)
  - [Commands](#commands)

## Dependencies
- [language-ext](https://github.com/louthy/language-ext)
- [MediatR](https://github.com/jbogard/MediatR)
- [KF.Essentials](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials)

## <a name="domainmodelling" /> Domain modelling
We draw a lot from the original _Domain Driven Design_ guidelines here, and implement it in a pragmatic way. If you do not agree with this setup, there is flexibility to alter it when implementing, or else, simply ignore it.
Do feel free to post an issue if something might be broken. 

If you want some reading on what an entity and a value object represents, please read this blgpost [Entity vs Value Object: the ultimate list of differences](https://enterprisecraftsmanship.com/posts/entity-vs-value-object-the-ultimate-list-of-differences/).

### <a name="entityoftid" /> Entity<TId> 
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/Entity.cs))</small>
Abstract generic class giving you the benefit of not writing boilerplate for an entity base class. `TId` stands for the type of the id you use in your domain model. It is recommended when started your own project not just to implement directly from `Entity<TId>`, but to create your own implementation based on it. E.g.:
```
    public abstract class DomainEntity : Entity<long>
    {
        protected DomainEntity(long id) 
            : base(id)
        { }
    }

    public sealed class Person : DomainEntity
    {
        // rest of the implementation here...
    }
```

Furthermore if you use a non-native type for your id, please consider overriding the [`CompareId` method](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/Entity.cs#L53) as this is implemented in the [`Equals` method](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Entity.cs#L46). Overriding it means you can apply specific logic for your id type, or apply other domain specific logic determining the equality between two id's.
```
    public abstract class DomainEntity : Entity<long>
    {
        protected DomainEntity(long id) 
            : base(id)
        { }

        protected override bool CompareId(long a, long b)
        {
            // implement your custom compare logic between a and b  
	}
    }    
```

Last of all, I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

### <a name="valueobject" /> ValueObject 
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/ValueObject.cs))</small>
Abstract class that provides you the benefit of not writing boilerplate for a valueobject base class.
When inheriting from in you will need to override the [property `EquatableValues`](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Model/ValueObject.cs#L35), this is an `IEnumerable<object>` that represents all properties, fields in the object that need to be taken into account when being compared, it essentially defines how `Equals` and `HashCode` are calculated and thus defines the _"identity"_ of the object. Here's an example implementation.
```
    public sealed class Name : ValueObject
    {
        // rest of the implementation here...

        public string First { get; }
        public string Last { get; }        

        protected override IEnumerable<object> EquatableValues
            => new[] { First, Last };
    }
```

Last of all, I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

## <a name="commandsandqueries" /> Commands and Queries

### <a name="queries" /> Queries
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Cqs/Queries/))</small>
Set of interfaces and classes to provide an easy way to define a _(reusable) query_ that can be handled by a queryhandler. I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

For optimal use make sure to register your `IQueryHandler<TQuery, TQueryResult>` with a DI container, either manually or by using an assembly scanner like [Scrutor](https://github.com/khellang/Scrutor), if done so you could then register all `IQueryHandler<,>` types like so to the `IServiceCollection`:
```
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        // other services...
        
        services.Scan(scan =>
            scan           
                .FromAssembliesOf(typeof(SomeTypeWhereYourQueryHandlersAreLocated))
                .AddClasses(classes => classes.AssignableTo(typeof(IQueryHandler<,>)))
                    .AsImplementedInterfaces()
                    .WithScopedLifetime()
            );
    }
```

### <a name="commands" /> Commands
<small style="font-size: 10px">([see implementation](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/blob/master/Source/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/Cqs/Commands/))</small>
Set of interfaces and classes to provide an easy way to define a _command_ that can be handled by a commandhandler. I refer to the [TestDomain](https://github.com/KodeFoxx/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture/tree/master/Tests/Kf.Essentials.CleanArchitecture.Tests.UnitTests/TestDomain) for example usage.

The commands, unlike the queries, are built on top of [MediatR](https://github.com/jbogard/MediatR), this allows you to make sure your command has options to be plugged in to MediatR's pipeline behavior and support. However, this is not necessary.
Queries are not built on top of this, but might be in the future, so they can also benefit of this behavior.
